The Anthropic team just released Claude Fable 5.1. If you're watching this, then you probably don't need me to tell you that this is the best model that money can buy for you. Now, the benchmarks look crazy. Like, there's a huge jump from Fable 5, which was already a little bit ahead of the 5.6 Soul. And that goes for pretty much every benchmark metric that at least they are introducing on their website. But, there's actually a quote which is more interesting than the benchmarks that they are displaying. Because it is related to trading. So, Craig Falls from Jane Street Capital is saying, "In internal benchmarks, Claude Fable 5.5 solves more of our coding problems than Fable 5 or Opus 5, and achieves state-of-the-art on trading intuition." So, this part is my favorite, because that is exactly what we care about as well. But, you know how it is on this channel. I like to test these models to see if they are actually able to write trading strategies, run backtests on them, optimization to improve the results, and at the end Monte Carlo simulations to ensure the results that they find aren't overfit. So, in other words, we want to see if they are able to conduct research from end to end. And that's what we're going to do in this video. If you're new here for the trading framework side of things, I'm using the Jesse framework, which also exposes an MCP these days, which if we connect it to our Claude code, allows us to conduct a research all by itself. It is also in Python, and since a while ago, it also allows us to do research on traditional markets. And in fact, in this video, we're going to be developing a strategy for SPY, which is an ETF for the S&P 500. Now, doing research with Jesse framework is free, and in fact, everything that I'm using in this video can be done with Jesse's free plan. So, you do not need to pay for it to get started. But, if you do want to import data, you do need some sort of data provider, such as Massive. You also need a subscription of Claude code, and in this case, I'm using the max plan with the 90 euros. I'm assuming you already have Cloud Code installed, so I'm not going to show you how to do that. And for installing Jesse itself, just check out the documentation page and get started with it. I also have made videos about this in the past, which you can check out. All right, so now you're ready to give the prompt to the agent for it to know exactly what we need. "Hey there, research and find a trend-following strategy for trading SPY-USD. Use super trend and whichever else indicator that you find suitable for this strategy. I need the results to have a sharp ratio of at least 1.5 in the last 2 years. Risk 3% of the account on each trade. Use optimization mode to improve the results. At the end, apply Monte Carlo simulations to ensure the results are not overfit. Continue until you find a strategies that fully meet the requested criteria. Use the hourly time frame for trading side and 4 hours as the anchor time frame. The strategy must take both long and short trades. Ensure the configuration is also in the future mode and not a spot. Continue until you either reach the results that I asked for or trying at least 200 times before stopping. Now, while that's going, I want to quickly remind you guys about our Telegram. It's the fastest way to get notified about my future work, whether it's a new tutorial or a tool that I create. Also, don't forget to check out our free Discord, where more than 5,000 members like you and I are hanging out there and helping out each other with algo trading so we can all succeed together. The links for both are down in the description. Look at that. It almost one-shot the whole thing. So, it did find the results that I was looking for, but then I checked it and I realized that the strategy wasn't taking any short trades. It did look good nonetheless, as you can see, but again, it wasn't taking any short trades as I was able to find out here. I just went back and specifically told it that I do want you to find me a strategy which takes both short and long trades. And this is something that I'm going to update the prompt that we use here to also include it. So, by the time that you are going to copy this prompt, it will be included in here, so it won't happen to you. Also, another thing is that in this example, I did not use something like BTC or ETH or any other crypto as before, and we use SPY, which is an ETF. Now, if you read my previous announcement either on our blog, Discord, Telegram, or email, then you know that I just added support for bringing a stock market or futures forex data into Jesse, so you can develop strategies for those markets, which these days almost every crypto exchange is offering the assets as well. So, for example, Lighter is one of my favorite exchanges these days. It's decentralized, and it has zero trading fees by default, which makes it a great option for trading, for example, the SPY. So, it's pretty cool, and the liquidity isn't that bad, really. You could also use the HyperLiquid, which I don't think you need me to introduce it to you. You probably already know it. The liquidity is better here. Actually, let's move on to SPY. Actually, the liquidity isn't as good as the Lighter exchange, but the trading fees are very low. Now, they are currently on a discount, so maybe this changes in the future. I don't know, but for now, they are definitely acceptable. But, one thing you need to remember at the moment is that if you decide to trade these traditional assets on crypto exchanges, you need to be careful because the data that we're feeding Jesse, which is right now coming from a third-party data provider, these are for traditional assets, which means we have holidays. So, there are gaps in the data. Now, Jesse is able to handle those in the current backtesting bullish, but the problem is that when you go to trade them live, the data is going to be 24/7. So, even when the market is closed, these assets are still going to give us candle data. So, your strategy needs to be slightly updated for live trading. I will probably create some sort of utility function, which would make this usage easier for Jesse users, but I'm still in the research process. So, anyways, moving on, at the end, this is the result that it gave me, which is definitely meeting the criteria that I set for it. So, the Sharpe ratio is 1.19. So, let's actually open it. So, this is the final backtest, and this is the Monte Carlo, and this is the prior window check. So, even without me asking, it went ahead and backtested the whole thing even 2 years before the date that we specified for it. So, there we go. This is the final backtest result. As you can see, it is beating the benchmark very easily. The max drawdown is a minus 9.7%. So, this is crazy. It's really good. The minute is 40%. The average win to loss is 2.66. The Sharpe ratio is 1.9, and all in all, I would say everything's fine, and we are still paying trading fees as well. Now, even if you trade something like this on lighter, which the trading fee is set to zero by default, it's still I would say it's a good idea to always run your backtest with at least a little bit of trading fees more than what you're going to pay end. This is to simulate a slippage, and I always want to be prepared for that. Now, moving on, this is the equity curve of the portfolio, and this orange one is the benchmark, which is SPY. This is the worst five periods of drawdown. So, we can see this one was the worst one, which reminds me the max underwater period is also 133 days. This is also very important metric that I always look at. And this is the monthly returns heat map, which basically tells us the performance of the portfolio on every single month. So, basically, it was pretty great during 2025. In 2026, we had some negative months, but we also had one really great month here. And overall, every year it was positive. So, this is good. We can also take a look at the individual trades that it took. And actually, one thing that I like about the code that Fable wrote for us is that it added the charts by default. Usually, this is something that I need to ask the MCP agent to do, but this one was able to do it all by itself. So, that's a pretty healthy. And here we can see this red line here is the stop-loss price. We can toggle it. The blue line is the EMA fast, and the orange line is the super trend on the 4 hours, which was the anchor time frame of the strategy. And here we can actually select some of the trades. So, for example, this one, which is actually the first one. So, it's was the long trade and obviously was a losing one. Next, let's take winning one. There we go. So, it entered it here and kept the position up here and so on. All right. So, moving on, here's the result of the backtest on 2 years before the date that we actually wrote the strategy for. So, you could say that this is basically the validation period because during development of the strategy, we did not use this data at all. And still looking good. We ended up where the market did itself, but the max drawdown is lower than the market itself. So, that's why this is a win because it allows us to add to the size of the position. And if you do that, we can end up with getting more returns while having maybe the same max drawdown as the benchmark itself. Now, by the way, guys, this is compared against S&P, right? Which is one of the best performing assets that anyone could purchase. So, beating that is not something easy actually. So, here again, we can see the performance for every single month. And this was the worst month that we had. minus 11% and this one was the best one. So, you can see that there was 1 year that we did not finish in profit. Now, I did not have more data to backtest back further in time, but feel free to do that by yourself. And last and not least, the Monte Carlo test, which is how we can estimate how lucky the strategy is to be overfit. Now, from what I see here in this chart, it actually looks very well because the original backtest simulation is this orange line, which is sitting right in the middle of the simulations, which is a good sign because if it was for example up here, it would have said that we were very lucky during our backtest, and we don't want to assume that we're going to continue to be lucky in the future, right? So, we want to see that, hey, there was even a chance for us to make even more profits. And if we compare it in this table, we can see the Sharpe ratio of the original backtest was 1.65, and the Sharpe of the best 5%, which I always want this one to be lower than this, is 2.13. And the median was 0.96. So, we can kind of say that the this Sharpe ratio is sitting in the middle, which is a good sign. Now, by the way, guys, this doesn't mean the strategy is 100% not overfit, or that it's going to make money 100%. There's no such thing as guaranteeing profits in trading, so always be aware of your risks. Now, we can also read the reports which have been prepared for us here to know exactly what was the objective of the model when I tried to to research for it. We can read some summaries, we can read the description of the video, the final backtest and the results, the issues it faced. Like, this is really complete. Like, if this was an actual person that you gave it the task to go and do research for you, you can imagine this was the results that they gave you back, which is in a very clean format and pretty useful. It's even giving us some good next step recommendations. So, for example, it's suggesting to begin with paper trading the strategy, to be careful about the drawdown, and even further tips on how to run the optimization without overfitting the strategy. Now, speaking of the strategy, let's go and take a look at the source code for it. So, here there's a huge description of it, which it reminds me, I'm going to replace this part with the actual prompt that I use for the strategy. So, if you guys want to reproduce it yourself, you can use that. Now, let's actually close this. All right, so, here's the anchor time frame candles. So, it's using this syntax. All right, so in this part actually I'm seeing something very important. So, it is selecting all the anchor time frames, but it is not selecting the last item. Now, I can guess why it is doing this. It's trying to avoid the look-ahead bias. So, it's assuming that the last item is actually including some data from the future, which is a typical thing in algo trading. But, because we're using the Jesse framework, it actually takes care of this all by itself. So, the last item is actually the forming candle, which is exactly how it would happen if you were live trading your strategy. So, that means it should not have done this, and I believe if we remove this, we should even get better results. Now, let's remove it and run the backtest one more time. All right, so I did that, but I got the exact same results. So, this is a bit weird. I'm going to investigate this further, but just so you know, you don't need to do that, okay? So, this is the correct syntax in Jesse framework, and you do not need to worry about the look-ahead bias because it will be taken care of for you behind the scenes. Next, we can see that it is defining the supertrend indicator here, and it is using this anchor time frame candles here. So, the period of it is a hyperparameter, which it is being used in optimization of the strategy. Now, here we can see that for a bull case it's saying that the current steel line should be above zero, so it needs to be positive, and that the closing price at this moment should be bigger than this line. And this is for the bear case, and before we move on, I actually like this case here. So, you see for the bear case, not only it needs to be the opposite of the bull case, but also we have one other condition, which is using the ADX. So, it went ahead and basically changed the condition for short trades. And I really like this because I've seen it in my own trading that sometimes a strategy needs different parameters and conditions for short trades compared to long trades. But, every single model that I have used so far, they never did this unless I had specifically told them to do this. So, this is something new with this model, and I appreciate that. Next, we can see it defined the ATR indicator. So, simply return ta.atr, and then it's passing the current candles, and then we have the ATR multiplied by four, and I'm guessing this is being used in setting the sub price. So, we can see, all right, yeah, here. So, the sub plus price is being set by the current entry price, which is the current price minus four times of the current ATR, and still it's being multiplied by another hyperparameter. Okay, so this syntax is a bit weird. I'm not going to lie. So, this isn't something that I'm used to. And here we can see this multiplier, its minimum value is one, and the maximum is four, and the type of it is float, and the step is 0.5. All right, overall looking good. And for the entry condition of the strategy, for the long trade, it's saying that it needs to be a bull case, and the current closing price should be below this moving average. And for short, it's the opposite of that, but we are also checking to ensure that the short mode is set to zero. So, let's take a look at this. All right, so it has defined like whether or not the strategy should be taking a short strategy as a hyperparameter. So, this is really weird, and I don't think this makes a lot of sense. It's basically trying to actually test to see if it helps to take short trades or not. So, no, I I wouldn't want to do this. This looks just too weird. But, it is working, and I'm pretty sure the value for this is one in our actual backtest results. So, let's take a look at that. And in case you didn't know, if you come here, we have this table in the backtest results, which shows us the translated value for the results of the optimization mode. So, here we have this short mode, and you can see it is set to one. So, yeah. And next, about the take profit of the strategy, we can see that it says that once the position is open, the stop loss is being set here. So, the price of the sub which we define here. Okay, so it makes sense. And the take profit is a bit weird. So, for short trades, it's using this. So, the quantity of the take profit is going to be the the quantity of the current position, pretty typical. And it did not need to define this index by the way because you can give it a negative value, it will still work, doesn't matter. But for the actual take profit price, so it's being set here. And we're saying the current entry price minus four times the DATR multiplied by this multiplier. Otherwise, simply set it to none. Okay, so I got to say that the syntax of the strategy that it wrote for us isn't the cleanest that I've seen like by any means. Okay, so it's not super simple or clean. We can of course ask the model to just simplify it and I'm sure it will do that for us. But it is nonetheless pretty interesting. And also we have the update position method which is basically telling Jesse whenever a new candle closes, I want you to do this. So, it checks if it's a long position, we have this condition in order whether or not to liquidate the current position. And we have this one for short positions. Notice we do not need to check whether the position is open or not because this function will only get executed in Jesse whenever there is a position to begin with. And here is the syntax for defining the charts that we just saw in the interactive charts to see the actual trades. And here's the syntax for the hyper parameters which allows us to run the optimization mode of Jesse to fine-tune the parameters. But as you just saw, the model did run the optimization but it also run the Monte Carlo simulations to ensure that we do not overfit the strategy because if we just set so many hyper parameters like this and just keep optimizing until we get the best results, there's a good chance that we're we're to be picking the overfit results. And we don't want to do that. All right, so I will be submitting this code on our strategies page, and I might also work a little bit on the code to make it simpler. But the point is you can get the code from this page. You can also check out the results for other symbols or time frames. Now, one thing is that so far we only supported ETH, SOL, and BTC in here. So now that this strategy has been developed for the SPY symbol, I need to update our website to support it, but I might also submit it just with another symbol such as BTC just so you guys can get access to the source code to play around with it all by yourself. But anyways, make sure to check out the strategy page on our website for other strategies that I've submitted in the past to play around with them for your own research. Now, before I move on, remember guys, check out the roadmap page on our website in order to vote on which features you want me to add to the framework first. And in fact, the reason I implemented this feature was because of your votes, and now we have access to importing third-party data for other markets such as the stock market to run simulations on them. And the reinforcement learning is also in the work, and it's mostly done. In fact, I've been working on this for months, but I do need to finish the documentation for it and create some tutorials on it before being able to release it. So definitely check out the roadmap page and vote on items, and remember that your votes are only for that month. So now that we are in September, your votes should have been reset, so you can check this page again. I will probably add some new items to it as well. So anyways, if you haven't subscribed to the channel, please do so because I will be creating more videos like this in the future, and please give it a like, and let me know what you think in the comment section. Thank you so much for watching. I'll see you in the next one. >> Mhm.